The shutil module in Python is used for high-level file operations. It comes under Python's standard utility modules.
This module helps in automating process of copying and removal of files and directories.  Here are some common methods
provided by the shutil module:
shutil.copy(src, dst): Copies the file src to the file or directory dst.
shutil.copy2(src, dst): Similar to shutil.copy(), but preserves file metadata (e.g., timestamps).
shutil.copyfile(src, dst): Copies the contents of the file named src to a file named dst.
shutil.move(src, dst): Moves a file or directory (src) to another location (dst).
shutil.rmtree(path): Removes an entire directory tree; path must point to a directory (but not a symbolic link to a directory).
These functions greatly simplify the process of working with files and directories, and are a key part of many Python programs
that need to interact with the filesystem.


The os module in Python can also perform file and directory operations. However, it provides a lower-level interface that can be more
 complex and verbose to use for some tasks. For example, to copy a file with the os module, you would need to open the source and
destination files and manually read from one and write to the other.  The shutil module, on the other hand, provides higher-level functions
like shutil.copy() and shutil.copyfile() that handle these details for you, making it easier to perform common file operations.
That's why it's often preferred for tasks like copying and moving files or directories.

Here's an example of how you might copy a file with the os module:

import os

def copy_file(src, dst):
    with open(src, 'rb') as fsrc:
        with open(dst, 'wb') as fdst:
            fdst.write(fsrc.read())

copy_file('source.txt', 'destination.txt')


And here's the equivalent code using the shutil module:

import shutil

shutil.copy('source.txt', 'destination.txt')

import shutil

shutil.copyfile('source.txt', 'destination.txt')


The shutil.copy() and shutil.copyfile() functions in Python both copy files, but they behave slightly differently:
shutil.copy(src, dst): This function copies the file src to the file or directory dst. If dst is a directory, a
file with the same basename as src is created (or overwritten) in the directory specified. shutil.copy() also
 preserves the file's permissions.

shutil.copyfile(src, dst): This function copies the contents of the file named src to a file named dst.
The destination location must be writable; otherwise, an IOError exception will be raised. If dst already
exists, it will be replaced. Special files such as character or block devices and pipes cannot be created
with shutil.copyfile().

In summary, shutil.copy() can copy to a destination directory and preserves file permissions,
while shutil.copyfile() only copies to a destination file and does not preserve permissions.